---
layout: post
title: Visit plan at WIPM
tags:
    - 量子信息
    - 量子计算
    - 冷原子
    - 量子操控
    - 量子非破坏测量
    - 自选压缩
categories:
    - 学术交流
---

## Talk: Dispersive Quantum Interface with Atoms and Nanophotonic Waveguides

+ ***Abstract:*** Strong coupling between atoms and light is critical for quantum information processing and precise sensing. A nanophotonic waveguide is a promising platform for realizing an atom-light interface that reaches the strong coupling regime.
We calculate the dyadic Green's function and the modified spontaneous emission rates of atoms in presence of a nanowaveguide, which we use to derive the dispersive light response theory using the Heisenberg-Langevin equations.
We study QND measurement and spin squeezing using first-principles stochastic master equations.
Based on the birefringence effect, we propose a spin squeezing protocol for the spins encoded in the clock transition of cesium-133. We generalize the concept of cooperativity, which is determined by the ratio between the measurement strength and the decoherence rate in the context of the dispersive waveguide interface. By maximizing the cooperativity per atom, we find the optimal choice of quantization axis that defines the clock states. With this, we predict a peak squeezing of 4.7 dB with 2500 atoms trapped along a realistic nanofiber.
To enhance the squeezing and for applications in magnetometry, we propose a protocol based on the Faraday effect for a nanofiber and a square waveguide. Counterintuitively, by placing the atoms at an azimuthal position where the guided probe mode has the lowest intensity, we increase the cooperativity. We find 6.3  dB and 13 dB of peak squeezing for the nanofiber and the square waveguide, respectively, with 2500 atoms.

If interested, I can also briefly discuss a preliminary work on the optimal control theory of atoms preloaded in an optical lattice near a nanophotonic waveguide.
The controllability of the system relies on the enhanced inhomogeneous interactions due to multiple scattering of photons among atoms and the global control of internal atomic states of the atoms and the lattice geometry using a microwave control field and the guided modes of the waveguide near the atoms.
I will discuss our protocol and demonstrate numerical evidences that one may be able to design universal optimal control waveforms to generate arbitrary collective states and unitary evolution operators in a product quantum space of atoms' internal states and lattice states with a finite size.
An immediate application of our protocol is to demonstrate Boson sampling and hence the quantum supremacy using atoms or atom-like particles on an optical lattice.



## 个人简介：
戚晓东，2007年本科毕业于山东科技大学，2010及2012年在中科院长春光学精密机械与物理研究所和加拿大女皇大学分别在大功率半导体激光和腔量子光学理论领域获得硕士学位，近期在美国新墨西哥大学完成原子与光子学波导界面研究，获得理论物理学博士学位。博士期间主要从事基于原子与光波导界面的原子基本属性调制、非破坏性精密测量、非经典自选压缩态制备和最优量子控制理论等研究方向。

## 日程安排


+ 6月22日周五，下午4:37从太原南站坐火车于22:29到达武汉。
+ 6月25日周一：学术报告。或许可以参观实验室，跟罗老师等讨论。
+ 25日周一下午：从武汉乘火车于17:16出发，19:33到达合肥南站。

***References:***

+ [1]. [Phys. Rev. A 97, 033829](https://dx.doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevA.97.033829) (2018).
+ [2]. [Phys. Rev. A 93, 023817](https://dx.doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevA.93.023817) (2016).
+ [3]. [Xiaodong Qi, PhD dissertation, chapter 3](https://dx.doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.1216258) (2018).
